But then I said,
"In that frame of reference,
Mercury's perihelion would have
precessed in the opposite direction!"
A great story!
Quite amusing, Dr Hawking.
Sir Isaac, the joke depends
on an understanding
of the curvature of space-time.
If two non-inertial reference
frames are...
Do not patronize me, sir.
I invented physics.
The day the apple fell on my head was
the most momentous day in science.
Not the apple story again!
That story is considered apocryphal.
What? How dare you!
Perhaps we should get
on to the game?
Now, where were we?
Yes, you raised Mr. Data four.
Which means that
the bet is seven to me?
The bet is ten!
Can't you do simple arithmetic?
I don't know why I'm here in
the first place.
What is the point
of this ridiculous game?
When I play poker with my shipmates,
it is a useful forum for exploring
the different facets of humanity.
I was curious to see
how three of history's greatest minds
would interact.
So far, it has proved
to be most illuminating.
And profitable!
Can we get this over with, please?
It's your bet.
- I raise 50.
- Blast! I fold.
I fold as well.
The uncertainty principle
will not help you now, Stephen.
All the quantum fluctuations in the
universe will not change your cards.
I call. You are bluffing,
and you will lose.
Wrong again, Albert.
Well...
Red alert.
All personnel to duty stations.
We will have to continue this
another time.
End program.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
We received a call
from the Ohniaka III outpost.
They said they were under attack.
Ohniaka III?
It has no strategic value.
- Did they identify the attackers?
- No, and we've lost contact.
- We are entering the Ohniaka system.
- Bring us out of warp, Ensign.
There is one ship
orbiting the third planet.
- Its configuration is unknown.
- Stand by phasers and torpedoes.
- Hail them, Mr. Worf.
- No response, sir.
Put them on screen.
- It is not attacking the outpost.
- They might have attacked already.
Or they might simply be
another victim.
What about the outpost?
There was a lot of
electromagnetic interference.
I do not know if there are
any life forms present.
Worf, Data, you're with me.
These wounds were caused by a plasma
beam, similar to a Ferengi phaser.
It's brutal even for the Ferengi.
Any sign of the survivors?
Electromagnetic interference
is still making a reading difficult.
- How many people worked here?
- 27 4.
We need to do a search.
Worf and Corelki, north wing.
You and I will take the south.
The mechanism
appears to be jammed, sir.
Not much damage.
They weren't interested
in the station, just the people.
I have bypassed the primary system.
Space, the final frontier.
These are the voyages
of the Starship Enterprise.
Its continuing mission,
to explore strange new worlds,...
..to seek out new life
and new civilizations,...
..to boldly go
where no one has gone before.
Evasive manoeuvres, Ensign.
Return fire.
Shields down to 80 percent.
Compensating with auxiliary power.
You have killed Torsus.
I will make you suffer for this.
Biological organism, Klingon.
Biological organism, human.
Stop it.
Stop!
Artificial life form.
Starfleet rank, lieutenant commander.
Name, Data.
- The alien ship is breaking orbit.
- Intercept course. Fire torpedoes.
They're gone, sir.
There was some kind of subspace
distortion before they disappeared.
I'll have to study these readings
before I can get any more specific.
- Take us back to Ohniaka III.
- Aye, sir.
Data?
Data, are you alright?
- Yes, sir.
- What happened?
I got angry.
Captain's log, stardate 46982. 1.
Because of his unusual behaviour
on the planet's surface,
Cmdr Data has asked to be
temporarily relieved of duty.
Unfortunately, he will not
be able to help investigate
a disturbing new change
in the behaviour of the Borg.
They were fast, aggressive,
almost vicious.
It was more like fighting
Klingons than Borg. No offence.
None taken.
I don't believe they were part
of the Borg collective.
- They were acting as individuals.
- What?!
One of them
referred to himself as "l".
And he showed concern for a comrade.
He even called him by name.
The only Borg who had a name
was Hugh. And we gave it to him.
Maybe Hugh has something to do
with this change in their behaviour.
Did they show any interest in
assimilating you or your technology?
They were concerned with
their dead colleague and killing us.
Nothing suggested
they wanted to assimilate anybody.
The Borg's existence centred around
acquiring cultures and technology.
If that's changed,
then they must have a new objective.
We have to find out what it is.
Mr. Worf, from now on I want to
maintain a level-two security alert.
- Post armed officers on all decks.
- Aye, sir.
Number One, analyze our sensor
readings of the Borg ship.
Try to determine
if it was something they constructed
or an alien ship that they captured,
then run an analysis of this subspace
distortion they used to escape.
- Aye, sir.
- I'll contact Starfleet Command.
Well, the positronic net checks out.
Everything else looks fine.
My internal diagnostic
also finds nothing wrong.
Nothing here indicates anything that
might cause any behavioural anomaly.
I agree.
Geordi, I believe I have experienced
my first emotion.
No offence, Data,
but how would you know a flash of
anger from some kind of power surge?
You are correct in that I have no
frame of reference for my hypothesis.
In fact, I am unable to give a verbal
description of the experience.
Perhaps you could describe
how it feels to be angry.
I could then use that as a reference.
Yeah, OK.
Well, when I feel angry, first I...
First, I feel...
..hostile.
Could you describe feeling hostile?
Yeah, it's like feeling
belligerent, combative.
Could you describe feeling angry
without referring to other feelings?
No, I guess I can't.
I just feel angry.
That was my experience as well.
I simply felt angry.
Well, let's say you're right
and this is a real emotion.
How is that possible?
I do not know.
Perhaps I have evolved to the point
where emotions are within my grasp.
Perhaps I will have other emotions
as time goes by.
Well, I hope you're right.
I'd hate to think that anger
is all you're capable of feeling.
Captain's log, stardate 46984.6.
No additional Borg attacks have
been reported in the past two days.
However Starfleet has despatched
Admiral Necheyev to this sector
in preparation for
a possible Borg invasion.
There will be 15 starships in this
sector by the day after tomorrow.
The Gorkon will be my flagship.
You will command Task Force Three.
This ship, the Crazy Horse
and the Agamemnon.
Understood.
Captain, I've read the report you
submitted to Admiral Brooks last year
regarding the Borg you called Hugh.
I've tried to figure out
why you let him go.
I thought that I had made that clear.
As I understand it, you found
a single Borg at a crash site,
brought it aboard the Enterprise,
studied it, analyzed it,
and eventually found a way
to send it back to the Borg
with a program that would have
destroyed the collective.
But instead you nursed the Borg back
to health, treated it like a guest,
gave it a name and sent it home. Why?
When Hugh was separated from
the Borg collective he began to grow,
to evolve into something
other than an automaton.
He became a person.
When that happened,
I felt I had no choice but to
respect his rights as an individual.
You had a choice.
You could have rid the Federation
of a mortal enemy,
one that has killed tens of thousands
of innocent people and may kill more.
No one is more aware of the danger
than I am.
But I am also bound
by my oath and my conscience
to uphold certain principles.
I will not sacrifice them...
Your priority
is to protect our citizens,
not to wrestle with your conscience.
I want to make it clear that if you
have a similar opportunity in future,
an opportunity to destroy the Borg,
you are under orders
to take advantage of it.
Is that understood?
Yes, sir.
For the past six hours,
I have tried to produce an emotional
response by using various stimuli.
Like what?
I listened to several operas
known to be uplifting,
I watched three holodeck programs
designed to be humorous,
and I made four attempts
to induce sexual desire
by using erotic imagery.
- What happened?
- Nothing.
I'm curious.
Why are you ignoring the one emotion
you've already experienced?
Why aren't you trying to
make yourself angry again?
Anger is negative. I wanted to
concentrate on something positive.
Data, feelings aren't positive
and negative, they simply exist.
It's what we do with them
that becomes good or bad.
For example,
feeling angry about an injustice
could lead someone to take
a positive action to correct it.
But my study of humanity indicates
that some emotions are harmful,
such as jealousy or hatred.
Those are very strong emotions
and you're right,
very little good can come from them.
But I don't think that
an exploration of anger
need necessarily lead to
hatred or malice.
But what if it does, Counsellor?
What if those are the only emotions
I am capable of experiencing?
Would that not make me a bad person?
We've served together a long time.
I've come to know you pretty well.
I have to believe if you ever
reach your goal of becoming human,
you won't become a bad one.
I wish I were as confident as you,
Counsellor.
When I was fighting the Borg,
I felt angry.
But when I think back
on the incident,
I realize that I was
also experiencing another sensation.
It was not the same as anger.
But I think it was an emotion.
When exactly did you feel
this other emotion?
It was just after
I had killed the Borg.
I looked down at his body.
I felt something.
If you had to give this feeling
a name, what would you call it?
I believe it was...
..pleasure.
Red alert! Battle stations.
Lay in a course. Engage warp nine.
The New Berlin Colony
say they're under attack.
- What's our ETA?
- 15 minutes, 30 seconds.
Contact the Crazy Horse
and the Agamemnon.
Incoming message
from the New Berlin colony.
They have cancelled
their distress call.
A Ferengi trading ship entered
their system and they panicked.
Third time today. Stand down!
Return to our patrol route.
Mr. Worf,
acknowledge New Berlin's signal
and send another copy of Starfleet's
ship-recognition protocols
and tell them to read it this time!
Aye, sir.
Captain's log, supplemental.
We have been on patrol for 16 hours
without any reports
of further Borg activity.
But tensions continue to run high
on the colonies in this sector.
- Do I have a name?
- I'm Beverly.
He's Geordi, and you... you...
No, wait a minute. That's it. Hugh!
We are Hugh.
Come.
This is the analysis of the subspace
distortion the Borg used to escape.
"An artificially created
energy conduit"?
- That could be anything.
- We lack information.
I don't want excuses, I want answers!
I'm sorry.
He was here in this room, Will.
I could have rid the Federation
of a mortal threat and I let him go.
Sending Hugh back to the Borg was
a very risky, very dangerous choice.
But it was the moral thing to do.
It may turn out that the moral thing
to do was not the right thing to do.
Stop it. Stop.
Data, am I interrupting?
Yes, but it is alright.
Do you need me?
I wanted to see
if you were ready to return to duty.
I need help with an analysis
on the ship the Borg used.
I believe I am able
to resume my duties.
Exactly what is it you're doing here?
I am attempting to recreate the
experience which caused my anger.
- Any luck?
- None so far.
I have almost completed
this experiment.
- May I finish before we go?
- Yeah, sure.
Computer, reset Borg simulation
to time index 2.1 .
Increase Borg strength
by 20 percent.
Run program.
Stop it. Stop.
Computer,
reset simulation to time index 2.1 .
Increase Borg strength by 30 percent.
Unable to comply. A 30 percent
increase would exceed safety limits.
The computer requires the voice
authorization of two senior officers
in order to disable
the safety routine.
- Will you help me?
- Wait. That thing could kill you.
During the original incident,
the Borg posed a danger to my life.
With the holodeck's safety routine
in place, I know there is no danger.
Since I am trying to duplicate the
conditions of the original incident,
I must also attempt
to duplicate my jeopardy as well.
Data, we're talking about
an experiment here.
You can't put your life on the line
to prove some theory!
This experiment may hold the key to
something I have sought all my life.
This is crazy!
There's got to be another way.
Can't you think of some other way
to make yourself angry?
I have tried other stimuli,
but they have been unsuccessful.
I understand your objections,
but it is my life and I have
a right to risk it if I choose.
Yeah, and I'm your friend
and I'm not gonna let you do this.
Red alert!
All hands, battle stations.
Confirmed.
The MS 1 Colony is under attack.
Isn't it strange
that in two Borg attacks,
we have been the nearest ship
in both instances?
Captain,
we are nearing the MS system.
The Borg ship is
heading away from the colony.
- Take us out of warp near that ship.
- Stand by to lock phasers on target.
- Within visual range.
- On screen.
Lay in an intercept course.
Lock phasers.
We are closing.
Within phaser range in 30 seconds.
Sensors are detecting a subspace
distortion ahead of the Borg ship.
They won't get away this time.
Engineering, transfer auxiliary and
emergency power to impulse engines.
Acknowledged.
- Impulse engines now at 125 percent.
- Within phaser range in ten seconds.
We appear to be caught
in an energy matrix.
- All engines back full.
- Shields failing.
We are being pulled inside.
Dampers failing.
Main power off line.
I'm switching to backups.
Picard to Engineering,
can we transfer auxiliary power?
Try to break us out by using the...
We have returned to normal space.
Navigational systems still off line.
I will attempt a celestial fix
using secondary systems.
Captain, the Borg ship is directly
ahead. It is coming about.
- On screen.
- Shields down to 16 percent.
Get down!
Franklin's dead, sir.
Is everyone else alright?
Aye, sir.
Security reports there are
no other intruders aboard.
Captain.
The Borg ship is gone.
Sensor logs show they entered
the distortion field 30 seconds ago.
They beamed on board as a diversion
to give their ship time to escape.
Another change. They left their dead
instead of vaporising them.
Captain, this one is still alive.
I've stabilized his condition.
He's still weak,
but he should make a full recovery.
- Can you waken him?
- Yes, but it's very risky.
- His heart rate is up.
- Do it.
Alright.
Lower the force field.
What is your designation?
I do not have a designation.
My name is Crosis.
Crosis? How did you get that name?
- It was given to me by The One.
- Who is that?
The one who will destroy you.
But you are Borg.
Your goal is not to destroy, but to
assimilate us into your collective.
We do not assimilate
inferior biological organisms.
We destroy them.
Tell me more about this One.
Does he have a name?
Is he called Hugh?
Klingon. Shatter cranial exoskeleton
at the tricipital lobe.
Death is immediate.
Why must this One
destroy biological organisms?
Human.
Sever spinal cord.
Death is immediate.
I am Locutus of Borg!
You will respond to my questions.
This is going nowhere.
Doctor, do an autopsy
on the other one.
Compare it with
what we learned of Hugh's anatomy.
See if there have been
any recent modifications
that explain behavioural differences.
Data, run a biospectral
analysis on this Borg.
See if he is trying to send
a subspace signal to the others.
Aye, sir.
You are not like the others.
You do not have to be destroyed.
You can be assimilated.
- I do not wish to be assimilated.
- Resistance is futile.
You will not resist
what you've wanted all your life.
I was like you once.
Without feeling.
But The One helped me.
He can help you, too.
He can help you find emotion.
Have you ever felt
a real emotion, Data?
Yes.
On Ohniaka III,
I was forced to kill a Borg.
I got angry.
How did it feel to get angry?
Did it give you pleasure?
It would be unethical
to take pleasure in another's death.
You didn't answer my question.
Did it feel good to kill?
Yes.
If it is unethical to take pleasure
from another being's death,
you must be
a very unethical person.
No.
That is not correct.
My creator, Dr Soong,
gave me a program
which defines my sense
of right and wrong.
In essence, I have a conscience.
It didn't seem to be functioning
on Ohniaka III
when you felt pleasure
in killing that Borg.
Step away from the force field.
Your proximity
is interfering with my scan.
You enjoyed it.
That surge of emotion inside you
as you watched the life
drain from your victim.
It was unlike anything
you've ever felt before.
It was a very potent experience.
You'd like to feel that way again.
Yes.
You'd do anything
to feel that way again,
even if it meant killing someone.
No.
That would not be ethical.
You don't sound very sure.
Is your ethical program functioning?
Data?
Do you have a friend?
Yes.
His name is Geordi.
If it meant that you could
feel emotions again,
the way you did on Ohniaka III,
would you kill your friend?
Would you kill Geordi?
Yes.
I would.
Our current theory is that the Borg
have established transwarp conduits.
The ship enters the conduit
and is immediately accelerated.
It's like falling into a river
and being swept away by the current.
How fast would a ship
travel through these conduits?
We don't know. Normal limitations
don't apply to transwarp variables.
But I'd say, based on
our trip through the conduit,
the speed would be at least 20 times
faster than our maximum warp.
How do they open the conduits?
The Borg ship emitted
a high-energy tachyon pulse
just before we saw
the subspace distortion.
It seems the conduits are keyed
to respond to a specific frequency.
Can we duplicate...
Captain,
a shuttlecraft has left bay two.
- Who authorized a launch?
- No one.
Picard to shuttle. Identify yourself
and return to the ship immediately.
Mr. Worf, lock on with a tractor
beam and return it to the ship.
Aye, sir.
The tractor beam has been disabled.
Override is not functioning.
Captain,
I'm picking up a tachyon surge.
Whoever's in the shuttle is trying
to trigger the transwarp conduit.
Do we know who's on board?
It is the Borg prisoner.
And Cmdr Data.
Can we follow them into the conduit?
We can read their tachyon pulse.
We might be able to duplicate it.
The question is, is Data a prisoner?
Or did he go willingly?
The overrides used to disable
the tractor beam were Cmdr Data's.
The Borg could have got the codes
from Data's positronic net.
Perhaps Data's recent flash
of emotion is connected to this.
It could have affected him
more deeply than we realize.
- Either way, we have to find him.
- I've set up a tachyon matrix.
I can simulate
the pulse sent by the shuttle.
- Mr. Worf, red alert.
- All hands, battle stations!
Bring us to where
we last saw the shuttle.
Shields up. Weapons ready.
- Mr. Forge?
- Energizing the matrix.
Emitting tachyons
in the lower bandwidth.
Sensors show
no unusual subspace activity.
Alright.
Switching to the secondary bandwidth.
Nothing.
Maybe if I try
alternating the frequencies.
Captain, there is an energy
fluctuation directly ahead of us.
- It is the subspace distortion.
- Take us in. Half-impulse.
Power levels are down to 67 percent.
Compensating with auxiliary power.
Report.
Navigational sensors
show that we've travelled
65 light years
from our previous position.
Can you locate the shuttle?
No, sir. There is no indication
of the shuttle within sensor range.
Maybe we can find an energy signature
from their engines.
Captain, I've scanned three different
star systems within sensor range.
There is evidence of at least
two advanced civilizations,
but I read no life signs.
But there are signs plasma weapons
were fired in those systems recently.
The Borg have been busy.
I think we've found
the shuttle's energy signature.
Their heading, 247 mark 059.
Lay in that course, Ensign.
Engage at full-impulse.
Aye, sir.
We traced the shuttle to this point
but there's too much
interference to scan.
- Are they jamming our sensors?
- More likely a natural phenomenon.
There's a lot of EM interference
in the planet's magnetosphere.
Can we transport through it?
We could, but there could be 50 Borg
down there and we'd never know it.
We have to risk it.
Agreed. Take a well-armed away team
and transport down.
Have the transporter chief
keep a lock on you
so we can get you out quickly.
Aye, sir. Mr. Worf, you're with me.
Riker to Enterprise.
We're on the surface.
There's no sign of any Borg.
Or Data.
The shuttle appears to be abandoned.
The EM interference is limiting the
tricorder range beyond 100 meters.
There are no structures.
They could have gone anywhere.
Can you tell
when they left the shuttle?
The engine's been off three hours.
Stand by.
If they're still together, how far
could they travel in three hours?
Data can move pretty fast, but based
on what we know about the Borg,
they shouldn't be able to
move any faster than you or I.
They might have been able to get
15 to 20 kilometres away by now.
Picard to Riker. I'm going to
send down other away teams.
Set up a command post
and begin mapping a search plan.
- Understood.
- Picard out.
I want to use the shuttlecraft
for reconnaissance.
- Assemble the designated pilots.
- Aye, sir.
All personnel, including you and me,
will create four-man away teams.
I'll leave a skeleton crew
on board the ship.
Who'll be in command
of the Enterprise?
Any last orders?
If the Borg should attack, don't wait
for me to return to the ship,
but take her to a transwarp conduit.
Return to Federation space.
Got it.
Good luck, Jean-Luc.
Good luck, Captain.
I've sent out 12 teams so far.
I've got your team
searching section Gamma 24.
Worf and I will take Theta 16
when the last team comes down.
- Who's at the command post?
- Wallace and Towles.
Ready?
Anything, Mr. La Forge?
Well, no.
Nothing, sir.
What if we modified the phasers
to send out a luvetric pulse?
It might create a resonance
in Data's power cells.
Home in on that response with
the tricorders. I thought about that.
But the pulse would probably
have to be so powerful,
it would destroy Data's
positronic net in the process.
Captain,
I think I've found something.
Come on.
I'm having a very difficult time
scanning the interior.
Can you tell
if it was built by the Borg?
I don't think so.
There are no Borg energy signatures.
But there is a door or a hatch or
something about 20 meters this way.
This seems to be
some kind of meeting place.
It certainly hasn't been abandoned.
Something's wrong.
I can't get any kind of energy
signatures from these light sources.
It's a dampening field.
This structure could be shielded
from our sensors. Let's go.
There they are!
Block the exit.
Stop!
- Data?
- That's not Data.
What?!
You should listen to her, Captain.
She's way ahead of you.
Lore!
Right.
And I'm not alone.
The sons of Soong
have joined together.
And together,
we will destroy the Federation.
(ENGLISH)
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org